So what drives this multimedia
train into the future
applications that we will
end up seeing in the future?
>> [LAUGH]
>> So
let's take a look at some
of the driving forces
that are kind of taking us into-
>> What's basically pushing multimedia
forward and-
>> Yeah, to the next era.
So you have an evolution in technology and
data networks.
So the increasing
availability of bandwidth and
I guess I'm kind of reading it but
I'm saying it too.
That the increasing availability in
bandwidth on demand in the office, home,
road, etc., we have higher speed,
higher data, higher speed data modems.
I mean, what we went-
>> I'm pretty sure everyone remembers DSL.
>> 56K, I remember I had a 56K modem and
I wouldn't even get a 56K connection.
So I would connect to the Internet and
even though my modem was 56K,
I would end up with 12K connection.
It took me, I don't know, a couple of
minutes to load an image sometimes,
or I think I spent four days trying
to download a Gorillaz video.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Gorillaz, the band.
Anyways, so the speed of our
Internet is just outrageously fast.
Google Fiber is hopefully
coming to San Diego.
We'll see.
>> [LAUGH]
>> But Google Fiber is threatening to give
us gigabytes at a time-
>> Right
>> Of speed.
That right there alone is just showing so
much promise for
the multimedia developer because
now you have access to these speeds
which would of otherwise at
one point been a limitation.
>> Maybe you can upload more longer videos
at a better rate, instead of waiting,
letting computer sit overnight to
download or upload a video to YouTube, or
something like that.
>> Yeah, of course, of course.
So also the widespread
availability of Internet.
I mean,
you're not limited to your house anymore.
You have your cell phone networks,
you have hotspots, you have coffee shops.
The Internet is everywhere.
In every sense of the word,
it's everywhere.
It's just the world wide web is
accessible in the whole world.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Yeah.
Another limitation that has
been completely thrown away,
no longer limited to
where you have Internet.
It's kind of everywhere now.
Fast processors,
the speed of processing has gone up,
I think based on Moore's law,
we're supposed to
increase our speeds by double every
18 months, I think that's what it is.
>> That sounds about right.
>> Yeah, so I mean the limitations
of speed are also being, those boundaries
are being pushed every 18 months.
Every six months I feel like a new
processor comes out, it's ridiculous so
new algorithms everything's
getting more robust.
Everything's getting written better.
You're having better tools to use.
People are out there and they're
all contributing to the same thing.
So like we've been talking about
libraries, why re-invent something.
Someone puts a library out there, you get
to now use this library which means you
didn't have to spend the time
building that library.
>> Even if someone comes up like a really
cool compression of them say like
the Hookman compression.
Why would you need to come up with your
own compression algorithm when this one
works just as well?
Works amazing.
>> Absolutely, and
I'm going to butcher this quote, but
it was Isaac Newton,
the creator of calculus.
I would have not achieved what I had
achieved had I not stood on the shoulders
of giants.
Something like that.
Anyways, everyone's putting stuff
out there, might as well utilize it.
You'll get way further.
You'll be able to utilize your time.
>> More efficiently.
>> More efficiently, yeah,
if you take advantage of all
the tools that are out there now.
So yeah, anyways, two more things here.
Smart terminals, digital phones.
We've gone over all this stuff
when we did our VoIP course.
We've talked about it I think
throughout the specialization.
You have all these different
hardware sets that you can
get that are allowing you
to just expand completely.
I mean, look,
we have our DragonBoard 410C here.
I mean, I would have never dreamed to
see a computer this small even just
five years ago, ten years ago,
this powerful at least.
This small and this powerful,
I mean it's amazing, and
they just keep getting smaller and
they keep getting more powerful.
And this can be used as a terminal to
call people with, it's just amazing.
>> Rick,
as you mentioned in the last course,
making your home smarter,
things like that.
>> Yeah.
And then,
the digitization of all of your devices.
So just the ability that,
you used to have a analog phone,
now you have a digital phone.
I mean, that's an example right there.
Every single thing, a microphone alone,
it's taking an analog signal,
turning it into a digital signal so
you can record stuff.
It's everywhere.
The forces,
the driving forces of multimedia.
There you go, you have some of the main
ones, I'm sure there's more out data you
can think of something that that's pushing
these, your ability to develop multimedia
applications, pushing it even further and
allowing breaking down the limitations and
all the barriers that would have
have otherwise construed you before.
So yeah, it's cool,
hopefully you enjoyed this and again,
you should probably check
out that website down there.
We will provide you with links at the end.
And we'll see you in the next video.